I'm Chris Carney I'm the multiplayer
design lead on reach and you're watching
inside xbox
the halo reach multiplayer beta begins
in just a few short days on Monday May
third all you need to ensure the beta is
a copy of halo 3 ODST and xbox live gold
membership and a little bit of time to
quit now Chris offered up all sorts of
details but we begin with the four new
maps included in the beta so sword base
and powerhouse are both roughly four on
four asymmetrical Slayer maps they're
kind of hoping an ideal team slayer
experience but you can play stockpile on
them you play head honor boneyard is the
massive invasion map for six on six
takes place in this ancient sort of
valley where the UNSC is deposited some
old ships and there's a massive frigate
that's under deconstruction and then
overlooked is part of the first mission
of reach and it's this gentle valley
where you play generator defense just
three on three generator washed of
course classic game modes like team
slayer and capture the flag will be
included but so will me modes like
headhunter where you gather and deposit
the flaming skulls of your fallen
enemies and stockpile where you retrieve
multiple wives for collection on a timer
but the new six on six game mode called
an agent
the most interesting i think invasion is
a new game mode that people will be
pretty excited about it's like big team
battle but it's six on six Spartan verse
elites and it feat features kind of a
three-tiered combat cycle is probably
the best way to describe it each tier
unlocks new loadouts new parts of the
map I mean for Slayer you can flow all
over the map but the different
territories come up and each time you
capture territory you get new sweeter
stuff depending on the tier now notice
Chris set one team of just partners
versus one team of holiness important
thing to know about that is the Spartans
are totally different from the elites
the elites are big you got more shields
more health they run faster but there
are also much bigger targets so the
Spartans are sort of small maneuverable
guys the elites are like me you know the
big hulking guys and they play
differently fans will also get to play
with the brand new armor abilities
including sprint jetpack armor lock ave
and invisibility armor abilities i mean
are very important part of reach and we
want to make it feel like a logical
extension of the sandbox so how do you
balance armor abilities against our
weapons and vehicles so it all feels
like one coherent vision I think it's
important to that each armor ability is
balanced against each other so there's
not one
rule them all like you don't want
everyone using jetpack my favorite armor
ability is armor lot I don't know what
that says about me psychologically but
when I'm getting hit I like going into
this invincible mode and then waiting
for people to mill around and pop out at
the perfect second you know finish my
wonderfully executed plan in my brain
there are a few smaller Dean plate
details that Halo fans will notice right
away as well yeah I think the biggest
changes for like your basic experience
between halo 3 and reached one you don't
jump as high reaches a little more real
world so jump height is definitely not
crazy Master Chief jump height health
packs are back and probably the last
thing is that your movement speed is
going to be a little different than halo
3 and your field of view is a little
different so we're trying to again make
it feel more fictional irrelevant i
think it's best term to you we have a
whole new metal system in the game and
we're trying a reward not only players
for playing well but for cool moments
and cool events one of the ones that
people initially notice its first right
whoever got first killing the game gets
the first rank metal take and then other
ones are close call so your shield and
health get really low but you still pull
off the kill will give you a close call
and then there's opportunist and some
other cool ones in there
the reach beta will also introduce the
new competitive arena system so the
arena is a series of hoppers that are
built for competitive play they're going
to great year after every game so you
play a game even a team game we're going
to assign you a rating for a combination
of things you did kills how many times
he died how many assists you had other
your team win our lost kind of a there's
a scullery of stats we pump into the
rating you play enough games during the
day we give you a daily rating you play
enough days during the season and in the
beta we're gonna have the preseason
we're gonna give you a season ranked and
then at the end of a season which right
now we're planning a season being a
month everything gets wiped and you
start all over again but then on your
player stats you'll actually see that
season like a line on a baseball card
like hey season one I was silver season
two I was gold so it's a way in it
compare yourself and really understand
his the best of the best you can get
your hands on the beta and help Bungie
make the halo reach multiplayer the best
we can be on May third thanks everyone
for watching inside xbox